= crowd_rails

Single sign on (SSO) with Atlassian Crowd 2.0 for Ruby on Rails.


== INSTALL:

  sudo gem install crowd_rails

== REQUIREMENTS:

* gem crowd-stefanwille
* soap4r[http://dev.ctor.org/soap4r] v1.5.8
* Atlassian Crowd v2.0
* Ruby v1.8.6 (or later)
* Rails 2.3.8 (or later)

== USE:

Add a file config/initializers/crowd_setup.rb and configure:

  require 'crowd'

  Crowd.crowd_url = 'http://127.0.0.1:8095/crowd/services/SecurityServer'
  Crowd.crowd_app_name = 'soaptest'
  Crowd.crowd_app_pword = 'soaptest'
  Crowd.crowd_validation_factors_need_user_agent = false  # false for Crowd 2.0.5, true for Crowd 2.0.2
  Crowd.crowd_session_validationinterval = 0  # Set > 0 for authentication caching. 

Then add this to your ApplicationController class:

  class ApplicationController < ActionController::Base
    include Crowd::SingleSignOn

    ...
    before_filter :authenticate 

    private
      def authenticate      
        return if RAILS_ENV == "test"
      
        return if crowd_authenticated?
      
        authenticate_or_request_with_http_basic('My Application') do |user_name, password| 
          crowd_authenticate(user_name, password)
        end
      end
  end

This will give you the usual gray password box (aka 'basic auth'). 
Replace Rails' the call to authenticate_or_request_with_http_basic() 
that asks the user for username and password if you want some fancier.


Assumptions (used above):

* Crowd Server is on localhost, port 8095
* There is an application configured in Crowd with name and password 'soaptest'
* Application 'soaptest' directory set to 'True'


== FEATURES:

* Interoperable single sign on with Atlassian Crowd 2.0.2 and 2.0.5.
* Can be configured for authentication caching.

Available methods in module Crowd::SingleSignOn:
* crowd_authenticated? - Returns whether the user is already authenticated.
* crowd_authenticate(user_name, password) - Authenticates the user with the given user name and password and marks the user as authenticated on success.
* crowd_authenticate!(user_name, password) - Same as #crowd_authenticate, but raises an AuthenticationException on failure.
* crowd_current_user_display_name - Returns the current users display name.
* crowd_current_user - Returns the current user, as seen by crowd.
* crowd_token - Returns the crowd token or nil.
* crowd_log_out - Logs the user out

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Stefan Wille. See LICENSE for details.
